Bringing up two frontier spotlights, the
first is Ben and Asher, two brilliant
brothers. Yes, they are come on up. Uh
founders of swimming submarines. Wait,
no. Wait a second, flapping airplanes.
Um and we're excited to hear about data
efficiency. Thanks so much. Thanks,
Konstantin.
>> [applause]
>> All right, yeah. It's uh really great to
be here. Thanks for having us. Uh we're
very excited to tell you about why the
future is data efficient. Um so, let's
get into it. So, uh first I think
introductions are in order. Uh my
background, I spent 3 years in the PhD
kind of deep in the kernel mines uh
writing very low-level GPU systems uh
before helping to start Flappy. And uh I
I also should say I I at one point
helped start an incubator called Prod
that worked with a bunch of companies
that did well. So, that's also part of
my background.
Cool. And so, I'm Asher. Um if you can't
tell, I'm Ben's older, um wiser, and
slightly less handsome brother. Um I
previously was also a Stanford PhD,
spent time at Cursor, Mercor.
And then lastly, our third co-founder is
Aiden Smith. Uh he's a Thiel fellow.
He's busy working right now. Uh but he's
spent uh 3 years super commuting between
his college and our lab. So, he knows a
lot both about the brain and also about
machine learning.
Um so, before we get started in earnest,
I do want to clarify some confusion. We
launched the company 3 months ago. Um we
are very excited to have received a lot
of inbound, but a surprising amount of
it has been from the aviation industry.
Um you know, people trying to sell us
things like runways, like not not runway
in the venture capital sense, like
literal runways. Uh you know, airplane
parts, wind tunnels, etc. So, I'd like
to disclaim once and for all, uh we are
not an airplane, we're an AI lab, and
hopefully that will become clear by the
end of this talk.
Okay, great. Um so, first a quick
outline. In this talk, we're going to
tell you about two things. First of all,
our thesis of why this is a really
important problem. And second, we'll
tell you a bit about our approach that
fuses both systems work and algorithmic
work. So, uh first on the thesis side.
So, if we look at the current state of
the world, LLMs have gotten incredibly
good at a couple of really valuable
tasks. So, for example, search, coding.
Together, these are, you know, at least
a trillion-dollar market that's probably
accessible here. A big part of the
reason why they've gotten so good at
these tasks, and this is related to what
uh Andre I think talked about this
morning, is that these are incredibly
well-resourced tasks in terms of the
amount of data that's available for
them. For search, this is basically the
entire internet. For coding, this is a
big fraction of the internet. Coding is
also a very friendly environment in that
it's very easy to produce mountains of
synthetic data if you want to.
Um so, when we talk about data
efficiency, what we're asking the
question of is, is it possible to get
these kinds of capabilities with much
less data? Intuitively, it seems like it
should be possible. Uh you know, humans
are able to become quite good at coding
uh with, you know, maybe 10,000 times or
100,000 times less data on this than
these current models take. So, this is
kind of the core question. And a reason
why this matters is that if we look
towards the future, there's a bunch of
other domains of the economy
where this uh where there's there's much
less data. So, for example, you know,
Jim talked this morning about how in
robotics, there's a ton of work that has
to go on to try to generate the data.
It's much more complicated than it is uh
in in coding and search. In trading,
there's only so much financial data.
Scientific discoveries, obviously very
little data. Uh but the the uh the
potential there is sort of unbounded.
And most important of all is, of course,
the end-to-end toaster supply chain.
Now, the reason I bring this up is not
because of what it is, it's because of
what it represents, namely that there
are tens of thousands of things like
this that really make up the broad
economy. And the broad economy doesn't
just look like search and coding, it
looks like a lot of things that are
actually really not well-resourced.
Yeah, and so
Ben's given you one economic reason to
believe that the future is data
efficient. I think a second claim is
that compute is actually easier to scale
than data.
I mean, we know that flops get
exponentially cheaper over time. And you
know, I think it's probably true that
data is not getting cheap as quickly as
compute is. Although, it is getting
cheaper. Um I think, you know, the
second reason is that collecting
frontier quality is complicated. The the
compute market is homogeneous in a or is
more homogeneous than the the data
market is. Like, you know, Greg was
telling us after, you know, GPT
launched, they could just try to buy all
the compute. And there's no centralized
data provider. Like, if you want to go
into the economy and collect the long
tail of tasks, you have to like deal
with regulations, you have to negotiate
with businesses about terms of use. It's
actually very annoying.
So, I think if you could As a result, if
you can make a model that's a thousand
times more data efficient, I think it'd
be a thousand times easier to deploy.
So,
those are two sort of economic reasons
that we think data efficiency is
important. The last reason is actually
kind of philosophical.
I think that, you know, if you look at
the world today,
um
there's not that many companies that can
train AI models. And And you know, part
of this is because of uh of
centralization of compute. But I think
it's also because of centralization of
data. Like, you know, I've heard news
about Neo Labs who, when trying to
create new capabilities, they like
literally buy out distressed bookstores
to find all the the data they can find.
They like go to like rare libraries to
find all the tiny niches of data that
you need to actually make a frontier
model. And I think um in a world that's
data efficient, I think that companies
can actually more broadly participate in
the AI revolution. Like, you know, we
heard earlier today that uh you know, in
in the poll about what the moat is in
the AI world, the the most common answer
was data. If that's true, then data
efficiency is the thing that actually
enables broader competition. So, I think
if you care about the shape of the world
to come, I think you really should care
about data efficiency because it it
modulates who can actually participate
in which parts of the AI economy.
Cool. So, now we're going to talk about
our approach. Um so, our goal is to
design data efficient AI. Um we design
algorithms for this. We're not going to
talk about them cuz they're our core IP.
But I will tell you about an important
facet of our approach, which is how we
try to look in new places. Like, if you
want new capabilities, where can you
find them?
So, our claim is that essentially, if
you want to develop new algorithms, you
should look at new primitives for
interacting with hardware. There's some
set of things that GPUs can do
efficiently.
And then there's a smaller set of things
that current frameworks like PyTorch,
for example, can actually express
efficiently. And, you know, that that
gray circle, we've seen a lot of
research into that circle. We actually
know what kinds of algorithms work.
But if you're looking for new
capabilities, you might want to look in
these new places. And that's where we
live at Flappy Airplanes. That's what we
try to do.
And you know, Ben will talk for a little
bit later, for example, about things
like fine-grainedness, which actually
are hard to do under current frameworks,
but a GPU actually can do.
Um you know, history suggests that this
is a good bet, for what it's worth. I
mean, a lot of the development of
machine learning over the past 15, 20,
even 100 years has actually been new
primitives for interacting with
hardware. Not necessarily designing new
chips, which is also important, but
merely figuring out how to squeeze more
out of the existing technology that has
proliferated.
Yeah, so I guess a bit of context. Um in
my PhD, I did some of this work on on
early work on mega kernels, uh which was
trying to make GPUs do weird stuff. Um
at Flappy, I would say that we are going
further in spiritually similar
directions, uh namely trying to kind of
abuse the crap out of GPUs in ways that
haven't been done before. Um this has
been quite a lot of fun. So, I actually
would recommend it if you if you like
playing with hardware. And I guess part
of what I'm excited about in this uh
talk is that I, you know, this is in
general I think a fairly high-level
venue, but I actually want to get into
the weeds of some stuff because I think
it's fun. Um
So, if we look at how kind of current
systems work, and this will be a little
bit abstract, but I hope that the the
concept will come across. What makes
current machine learning frameworks easy
to use is that they synthesize a
single-threaded programming model out of
very parallel processors. So, basically,
when you write PyTorch, you write
matmul, and then attention, and then
matmul, and then RMS norm. And under the
hood, there's all kinds of contortions
that happen where the software
dispatches it in parallel across a very
parallel set of processors. But
nonetheless, to the programmer, this
looks very natural.
But what happens if you want to run
things that look like this?
Or maybe you want to run things that
look like this.
All of a sudden, these kinds of things
are not easily expressed in current
frameworks.
So, uh one thing I'm just very excited
to show sort of a little teaser of is
our internal framework that we use,
which is built off a virtual machine uh
that kind of just takes over the whole
GPU, and we just do everything we want
ourselves on it. Uh in this particular
case, this is not a real workload I'm
showing. This is kind of a stylized
thing that is uh similar, but uh gives
is an example of something that is also
asymptotically inefficient to run in
PyTorch. This is a very small batch kind
of deeply pipelined hogwild-style
training loop. Uh this is the kind of
thing that's very hard to do with with
current frameworks. So,
uh the the thing that I sort of like to
get across here is that when you build
these new kinds of systems, you enable
new algorithms. Many of these algorithms
we think are actually very relevant to
the data efficiency problems. This is
why we care about it. Um
and that it is the kind of
co-optimization of those things that we
find really interesting.
Cool. So, um we're almost out of time. I
I just really have one more thing to
say, which is that if you find this
exciting, please come talk to us. Um you
know, we we work with lots of folks who
have trained big models before, but
we're also trying to do creative new
things. We're trying to change the
paradigm. And you know, certainly our
experience watching uh some of the the
companies Ben has has helped incubate is
that, you know, creative people with
unconventional backgrounds can actually
do amazing things and change the world.
So, if you are of that background,
please come chat with us.
Okay, so I guess maybe a very quick
recap, and then I think we probably have
time for one question or so. Uh
first of all, data efficiency. If you
care about the shape of the world to
come, if you care about the broad
deployment of AI into the economy, you
should care about making models much
more data efficient. And that uh
you know, our finding has been that
building new systems to enable more
fine-grained use of GPUs is actually
very relevant to building these kinds of
systems. Um and as Asher said, if you
find this exciting, please come talk to
us for a round.
Thanks, everyone. Thank you.
>> [applause]